one of the main hospitals in southern
Gaza is now empty after Israeli troops
seized the Rafa border crossing patients
and medical workers fled Abu yusf al-
nja Hospital in Rafa fearing Israeli
strikes the hospital was one of the few
medical facilities treating patients
wounded during Israeli attacks in the
city let's get an update on the
situation on the ground line speak to Al
jazer hanim Mahmud who's in Dar albala
that's in central Gaza honey many people
from different areas of Rafa not just
the East where the evacuation order was
issued are fleeing Rafa to head to the
central areas including Daryl Bala where
you are can you tell us what the
situation is like
there gu well right now even for people
who already evacuated and or still on
the road to DAR bah City they are moving
with a shattered sense of safety as Dar
bah again is not largely safe there if
every once in a while we hear this
constant artillery Shilling and loud
explosion at the eastern part of the
city we are located right now at ala
hospital that's at the western part of
Dar B City that's the western side of
salahadin road the city comes in between
is is is separated by salahadin road to
the Eastern side and the western side
but ongoing artillery Shilling is
causing sort of of concern and panic and
what seems to be more of an expansion of
the uh of the military operations by the
Israeli military as of RA City the the
confirmed reports that we're getting
right now is the the intense bombing
campaign is expanding outside the
eastern part of the city to include
right now the older residential Towers
at the central part of RA so far we have
confirmed reports of three residential
towers that have been directly targeted
by the artillery Shing and air strikes
those are at the central part of RA City
just forcing more people into further
internal displacement within the past 24
hours alone in
City atrocities against families and
evacuates and displaced individuals uh
we're looking at 35 people have been
killed and the majority women and
children and elderly inside the
residential homes or on the road trying
to flee the mom's 129 critically injured
all it transferred to field hospitals at
the western part or inside the Kuai
hospital and with Abus ner Hospital non
operation right now out of service is
increasing the pressure on these field
hospitals and a smaller sight facility
the Kuai hospital so there's no letup in
Israeli bombing across the Gaza Strip
Aid agencies honey are warning that the
humanitarian situation is only going to
get worse in light of these latest
developments and the Israelis have been
preventing the entry of Aid through Rafa
which theyve taken control of but they
claim that they've reopened the Karim
Abu salm Crossing has any Aid gotten
through to that land Crossing
well already the situations in terms of
humanitarian Aid and humanitarian
situations in general are getting quite
difficult right now with the closure of
RA Crossing that represent the artery of
humanitarian Aid to the Gaza Strip but
complete closure and it not only
threatened the expansion and of a
starvation in in overcrowded sudden part
of the the of the of the the strip but
also it cut off the uh the supply of
fuel to health facilities across Rafa
City right now with this full enclosure
there's only a a small amount of fuel
available to run power generators at the
Kuwaiti hospital as well as the field
hospital to the western part of the city
for the pment they relied on the ongoing
Supply that was not even not not was not
not was not constant but it was
disconnected somehow the operated but
right now with the full closure it seems
that they're going to run out of the
fuel that keeps these Hospital oper this
is one aspect of how humanitarian
situations is going are getting much
worse by the hour right now now the
reopening of Kim as stated by the
Israeli military is is providing the
strip right now with a trickle amount of
it because when we look at the amount
that has been allowed since the uh the
announcement that it has reopen is only
a little bit of what needed right now
with the expansion of the Carnage across
the STP and only open because of the
pressure uh placed by the US
Administration and the American
President Joe Biden on the Israeli
government it it it's largely perceived
as a way to absorb the pressure by the
American Administration on the Israeli
government honey thank you very much for
that that's Al jazer is Hy Mahmud
reporting their life from Dar Al balah
in central
Gaza make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from aler